mind your decisions i'm preshtalwalker
start with a rectangle and construct one
of its diagonals
from the midpoint of the bottom side
construct two line segments that trisect
the top side
then consider the following triangle
if the rectangle has an area equal to 10
what is the area of this triangle
for convenience you can use these
letters to label the diagram
i was suggested this problem by email
and i was told
that this problem was given to 10 year
old students
it's quite a challenging problem pause
the video if you'd like to give this
problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
i will present one way to solve this
problem
suppose the rectangle has a height equal
to h and a side length equal to s
then the bottom side is divided into two
lengths of s
over 2 and the top side is divided into
3 lengths of
s over 3. next consider the following
two triangles
they will be similar to each other and
therefore their lengths will be in the
same proportion
the smaller triangle has a side length
that's two-thirds that
of the larger triangle therefore if we
construct the height
of the larger triangle and say it's
equal to x
the height of the smaller triangle will
be equal to two-thirds of x
we then have x plus two-thirds x is
equal to h
which means that x is equal to
three-fifths h
let's put this in this diagram right
here and now let's consider two more
similar triangles
by the same logic their heights will be
in the same proportion as their sides
therefore if we say the height of the
bottom triangle is equal to y
the height of the top triangle will be
equal to four thirds y
we then have y plus four thirds y is
equal to h
which means that y is equal to three
sevenths h
we substitute this in and now we can
solve the problem
first we will calculate the area of this
triangle
notice that we know its height and we
know its base so its area will be one
half the height times its base
we then will calculate the area of this
triangle and again we know its height
and we know its base
so we calculate its area and we want to
subtract this area
the result will be the area of this
triangle
we do some algebra and we get that the
answer is equal to h
times s times 3 over 70.
we know one more fact the area of the
rectangle
is equal to 10 and the area of the
rectangle is equal to h
times s therefore we substitute in and
we solve that the area of this triangle
is equal to 3 over 7
and that's our answer what's remarkable
about the answer
is it doesn't depend on the particular
dimensions of the rectangle
as long as the rectangle has an area
equal to 10
the triangle has an area equal to 3 over
7.
incredible thanks for making mind your
decisions one of the best channels on
youtube
see you next episode as we solve the
world's problems
one video at a time